---
layout: post
title: Activity5
subtitle: Connecting your world by IOT seminar
categories: Discussions
tags: [discussions, IoT, seminar]
---

## Description

# What happened?

There was a seminar for us on the fifth of December of 2023 by Babak Reihani and his team explaining the concept of IoT and the devices, connections, and platforms used in it followed by videos of examples of it.
This professional team has practical experiences and came to our university to introduce us to the vast world of IOT and its benefits and answer our curiosity.

## Feelings

# What were your thoughts and feelings?

It's such an honor to meet great people in the IT industry and I'm thankful for the opportunities that our university and teachers bring to us to know different fields of IT and companies working on them. I think it helps us to choose our future career more wisely.

## Evaluation

# What was good or bad about this experience?

As I mentioned before it's very good that we can meet professionals in different fields of IT. We can know each field, compare them, and choose the career we want.
Also, the PowerPoint used in this seminar was edited very nicely. The order of topics was smooth and relevant and the design of it was not boring at all. Another thing that I liked was the use of videos to show examples of IOT in our lives. I think it was a very wise choice for Gen Z students who get bored and distracted easily.

## Analysis

# What sense can you make of what happened?

It was a generic seminar without going so much into detail but it covered many important aspects of IOT such as its history, devices and connections used in it, IOT platform, smart cities, and examples of using IOT.
We have learned that the Internet of Things (IoT) has undergone a remarkable evolution, shaping the way we interact with our surroundings in profound ways. Beginning with the rudimentary connection of a Coke machine at Carnegie Mellon University in 1982, the journey of IoT has unfolded through technological leaps and societal shifts. Coined by Kevin Ashton in 1999, the term "Internet of Things" started to encapsulate a vision where everyday objects could communicate and share information digitally. Over the years, the development of sensor technology, the advent of smartphones, and the establishment of industry consortia have propelled IoT into a ubiquitous force. From integrating IoT in industrial processes to its penetration into our homes through smart devices, the history of IoT is a narrative of connectivity, collaboration, and technological innovation.
Also, we learned that in the expansive realm of the Internet of Things (IoT), devices and their interconnectedness form the backbone of a digitally woven landscape. IoT devices, ranging from sensors and actuators to smart appliances and industrial machinery, are equipped with the capability to collect, process, and transmit data. These devices serve as the eyes and ears of the IoT ecosystem, capturing information from the physical world and converting it into a digital format. The diversity of these devices is vast, encompassing everything from wearable health trackers to intelligent streetlights and autonomous vehicles. The key to the efficacy of IoT lies in the seamless connections between these devices, facilitated by communication protocols and networks. Whether through traditional Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, or emerging technologies like Narrowband IoT (NB-IoT) and 5G, the interplay of devices and their connections creates a dynamic web that enables real-time data exchange, fostering automation, efficiency, and improved decision-making across various domains.
We learned IoT platforms play a central role in the functionality and scalability of the Internet of Things, serving as the command and control centers for interconnected devices. These platforms provide a comprehensive suite of tools and services that facilitate the seamless integration, management, and analysis of data generated by IoT devices. These platforms typically include features such as device management, security protocols, and application enablement, empowering businesses and developers to build, deploy, and manage IoT applications efficiently. With the ability to connect disparate devices, ensure data security, and derive actionable insights, IoT platforms serve as the linchpin for realizing the full potential of the IoT ecosystem across various industries, from healthcare and manufacturing to smart cities and agriculture.
One of the protocols that they introduced to us was MQTT, or Message Queuing Telemetry Transport, a lightweight and open-source messaging protocol designed for efficient communication between devices in the Internet of Things (IoT). Another interesting protocol was CoAP, or Constrained Application Protocol, a lightweight and efficient communication protocol designed for constrained devices and low-power, low-bandwidth networks, in the Internet of Things (IoT) ecosystems.
Lastly, we saw the explanation of smart cities that we hope to reach in the future and a smart ball-shaped camera that is used today as examples of IoT and the benefits that it brings to our lives in the form of 2 separate videos.

## Conclusion

# What else could they have done?

After the seminar, many students were searching for their contact details, if they have courses or internships available, or their address. I think they should mention this information in their seminar.
